---
layout: post
title: "Day 4 - Studying code"
categories: [til, python, SQL]
---

# Day 4 — Python & SQL
📅 2026-01-08

Today is **Day 4 of my  learning journey**.  

This post is written mainly for myself, but it may also help other beginners.

---

## Python with statement
When working with resources like files, they must be closed after use.
If an exception occurs before calling close(), the resource may remain open.
Python’s with statement automatically handles setup and cleanup.
Even if an error occurs inside the with block, the resource is safely closed.
This makes code safer, cleaner, and more readable.

### Key idea:
with = automatic resource management (open → use → auto-close)


## Iterating over Python dictionaries properly
Iterating over a dictionary directly returns its keys by default.
Using .keys() in a for loop is unnecessary when only keys are needed.
To access both keys and values efficiently, use .items().
.items() improves readability and avoids extra dictionary lookups.

### Best practices:
Use for key in dict: instead of for key in dict.keys()
Use for key, value in dict.items() when both are needed
```python
for key in dict:
    print(key)
for key, value in dict.items():
    print(key, value)
```


## Iterating over multiple lists in Python
Using range(len()) to iterate over lists works but is not Pythonic.
enumerate() is useful when you need both the index and the value.
When iterating over two lists in parallel, zip() is the cleanest and most readable solution.
zip() avoids index-based access and reduces the risk of errors.

### Best practice:
Use enumerate() for index + value
Use zip() for multiple sequences
```python
for i, country in enumerate(countries):
    population = populations[i]
    print(country,population)

for country, population in zip(countries, populations):
    print(country, population)
```


## Python operator precedence
Order of evaluation (highest → lowest)
() — parentheses
Arithmetic operators: **(expnent), +, -, *, /, //, %
comparison: ==, >, <, !=
not
and
or

#### and
Evaluates left → right
Returns the first falsy value
If all values are truthy, returns the last value

#### or
Evaluates left → right
Returns the first truthy value
If all values are falsy, returns the last value

#### Truthiness reminder
Falsy values in Python:
False, None
0, 0.0
""
[], {}, set()
※ Everything else is truthy.

### Common pitfalls
```python
a or b == c    # a or (b == c)
a and b == c  # a and (b == c)
not True == False  # not (True == False)
```

